Before analyzing the data, according to the technology used for gene expression assessment, pre-processing of data is mandatory. In order to maintain the maximum number of comparisons of gene expression levels, all preprocessing procedures will be applied to the combined transcriptomic dataset at baseline and week 12.
## RNA quality check
The distribution of the RNA Integrity Number (RIN) will be scrutinized, if not done at the raw data preprocessing step. Samples with low RIN (RIN < 7) may be filtered out. Median Absolute Deviation (MAD), which evaluates the reproducibility, will be calculated using two biological or technical replicates, if available.
## Filtering lowly expressed genes
Genes having very low counts across samples represent technical noise. Genes having very low counts across all sample libraries will be filtered out. The count per million (CPM) values will be computed for each sample. Counts per million are counts scaled by the total number of sequenced fragments in a sample, aka library size, times a factor of one million. Genes with less than 1 CPM in more than half of the samples will be filtered out. The filtering rule will be applied to the datasets at baseline and at week 12, separately. The gene will be kept in the analysis the CPM pass the filtering threshold in any or both datasets. The specific threshold of 1 CPM may be adjusted depending on the count distribution in the dataset.
## Counts normalization
Normalization is a process designed to remove systematic technical differences between samples to ensure that technical bias has minimal impact on the results. One can envisage within-sample and between-sample normalization. In this study since one is interested in differential expression between experimental conditions rather than comparing expression levels of different genes in a sample, only a between-sample normalization will be performed.
Trimmed Mean of M-values (TMM) normalization will be applied to the raw counts using the R package such as EdgeR [1].

## Sample variability examination
Both intra- and intergroup variability will be examined on normalized data. Intra-group variability examines technical or biological variability. MAD score (described above) will be calculated as an estimate of intra-group variability. As for inter-group variability, we will examine the variabilities between two therapy groups at the two time points (baseline and week 12).  Multi-dimensional scaling (MDS) plot will be used to visually examine the variability of samples using the whole genome expressional levels. Any samples that are distant from the majority of samples (outliers) are subject to removal from the analysis. Under the assumption that itepekimab will affect the expressions of only a small fraction of genes in the genome, one would expect no distinct separations between two therapy groups. If a pattern of clusters between two therapy groups is detected, adjustment of batch effect, which represents the of unwanted systematic differences that are not due to biological variations, should be considered. The batch effect can be either adjusted in the statistical model or removed with combat function in sva package [2].

# Reference
1.	Chen, Y., et al., edgeR: differential analysis of sequence read count data  User's Guide. p. 119.
2.	Leek, J.T., et al., The sva package for removing batch effects and other unwanted variation in high-throughput experiments. Bioinformatics, 2012. 28(6): p. 882-883.
